For immediate release

December 16, 2015

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October suggests
that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Household spending and
business fixed investment have been increasing at solid rates in recent months, and the housing
sector has improved further; however, net exports have been soft. A range of recent labor market
indicators, including ongoing job gains and declining unemployment, shows further
improvement and confirms that underutilization of labor resources has diminished appreciably
since early this year. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run
objective, partly reflecting declines in energy prices and in prices of non-energy imports.
Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low; some survey-based measures of
longer-term inflation expectations have edged down.
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee currently expects that, with gradual adjustments
in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will continue to expand at a moderate pace
and labor market indicators will continue to strengthen. Overall, taking into account domestic
and international developments, the Committee sees the risks to the outlook for both economic
activity and the labor market as balanced. Inflation is expected to rise to 2 percent over the
medium term as the transitory effects of declines in energy and import prices dissipate and the
labor market strengthens further. The Committee continues to monitor inflation developments
closely.
The Committee judges that there has been considerable improvement in labor market
conditions this year, and it is reasonably confident that inflation will rise, over the medium term,
to its 2 percent objective. Given the economic outlook, and recognizing the time it takes for
policy actions to affect future economic outcomes, the Committee decided to raise the target
(more)

-2range for the federal funds rate to 1/4 to 1/2 percent. The stance of monetary policy remains
accommodative after this increase, thereby supporting further improvement in labor market
conditions and a return to 2 percent inflation.
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international
developments. In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 percent, the Committee will
carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal. The Committee expects
that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the
federal funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below levels that are
expected to prevail in the longer run. However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will
depend on the economic outlook as informed by incoming data.
The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from
its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed
securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction, and it anticipates doing so
until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way. This policy, by
keeping the Committee’s holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help
maintain accommodative financial conditions.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C.
Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley Fischer; Jeffrey M. Lacker;
Dennis P. Lockhart; Jerome H. Powell; Daniel K. Tarullo; and John C. Williams.

-0Attachment

December 16, 2015
Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy
stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on December
16, 2015:
•

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 0.50 percent,
effective December 17, 2015.

•

As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize
and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until
instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in
accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 1
“Effective December 17, 2015, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk
to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate in
a target range of 1/4 to 1/2 percent, including: (1) overnight reverse repurchase
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one day
when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading conventions) at
an offering rate of 0.25 percent, in amounts limited only by the value of Treasury
securities held outright in the System Open Market Account that are available for
such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of $30 billion per day; and (2) term
reverse repurchase operations to the extent approved in the resolution on term RRP
operations approved by the Committee at its March 17–18, 2015, meeting.
The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over maturing Treasury securities
at auction and to continue reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and
agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The
Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency
mortgage-backed securities transactions.”
More information regarding open market operations may be found on the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s website.

•

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the discount rate (the
primary credit rate) to 1.00 percent, effective December 17, 2015. In taking this
action, the Board approved requests submitted by the Boards of Directors of the
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta,
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open
Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s
operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy.

1

This directive supersedes the resolution on the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) test
operations approved by the Committee at its December 16–17, 2014 meeting.

