For release at 2 p.m. EDT

June 13, 2018

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in May indicates
that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has been rising at a
solid rate. Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and the unemployment rate
has declined. Recent data suggest that growth of household spending has picked up, while
business fixed investment has continued to grow strongly. On a 12-month basis, both overall
inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy have moved close to 2 percent.
Indicators of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, on balance.
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee expects that further gradual increases in the
target range for the federal funds rate will be consistent with sustained expansion of economic
activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the Committee's symmetric 2 percent
objective over the medium term. Risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced.
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the Committee
decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 1-3/4 to 2 percent. The stance of
monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting strong labor market conditions and
a sustained return to 2 percent inflation.
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its
maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation objective. This
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor
market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on
financial and international developments.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chairman;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael Brainard;
Loretta J. Mester; Randal K. Quarles; and John C. Williams.
-0-

For release at 2 p.m. EDT

June 13, 2018

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in its statement on June 13, 2018:
•

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to raise the
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.95 percent, effective
June 14, 2018. Setting the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances
5 basis points below the top of the target range for the federal funds rate is intended to
foster trading in the federal funds market at rates well within the FOMC’s target range.

•

As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance
with the following domestic policy directive:
“Effective June 14, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to
undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate
in a target range of 1-3/4 to 2 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading
conventions) at an offering rate of 1.75 percent, in amounts limited only by the
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of
$30 billion per day.
The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities
maturing during June that exceeds $18 billion, and to continue reinvesting in
agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed
securities received during June that exceeds $12 billion. Effective in July, the
Committee directs the Desk to roll over at auction the amount of principal
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities maturing
during each calendar month that exceeds $24 billion, and to reinvest in agency
mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the Federal
Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
received during each calendar month that exceeds $16 billion. Small deviations
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable.
The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency
mortgage-backed securities transactions.”
(more)

For release at 2 p.m. EDT

June 13, 2018
-2-

•

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to 2.50
percent, effective June 14, 2018. In taking this action, the Board approved requests to
establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of
Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis,
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy.
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website.

