For release at 2 p.m. EDT

May 2, 2018

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March indicates that
the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has been rising at a
moderate rate. Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and the unemployment
rate has stayed low. Recent data suggest that growth of household spending moderated from its
strong fourth-quarter pace, while business fixed investment continued to grow strongly. On a
12-month basis, both overall inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy have
moved close to 2 percent. Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low;
survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed, on balance.
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment
and price stability. The Committee expects that, with further gradual adjustments in the stance
of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace in the medium term and
labor market conditions will remain strong. Inflation on a 12-month basis is expected to run near
the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective over the medium term. Risks to the economic
outlook appear roughly balanced.
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the Committee
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 percent. The
stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby supporting strong labor market
conditions and a sustained return to 2 percent inflation.
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal
funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators
of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international
developments. The Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected inflation
developments relative to its symmetric inflation goal. The Committee expects that economic

(more)

For release at 2 p.m. EDT

May 2, 2018
-2 -

conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant further gradual increases in the federal funds
rate; the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to
prevail in the longer run. However, the actual path of the federal funds rate will depend on the
economic outlook as informed by incoming data.
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chairman;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael Brainard;
Loretta J. Mester; Randal K. Quarles; and John C. Williams.
-0-

For release at 2 p.m. EDT

May 2, 2018

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its statement on May 2, 2018:
•

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to maintain
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances at 1.75 percent, effective
May 3, 2018.

•

As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance
with the following domestic policy directive:
“Effective May 3, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to
undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate
in a target range of 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one
day when necessary to accommodate weekend, holiday, or similar trading
conventions) at an offering rate of 1.50 percent, in amounts limited only by the
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account
that are available for such operations and by a per-counterparty limit of
$30 billion per day.
The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of
principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities
maturing during each calendar month that exceeds $18 billion, and to reinvest in
agency mortgage-backed securities the amount of principal payments from the
Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
received during each calendar month that exceeds $12 billion. Small deviations
from these amounts for operational reasons are acceptable.
The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency
mortgage-backed securities transactions.”

•

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted
unanimously to approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level
of 2.25 percent.

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve's operational tools
and approach used to implement monetary policy.
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York's website.

